@@newsletter
__2023-04-21__

I was on Pomona and Rona last weekend collecting sd cards and reconfiguring moths to record longer winter hours.

The new model worked a treat, There were around 3200 detections and only 13% false positives. This is because the moths were not recording anywhere near sunrise or sunset due to the longer nights.

Since I now sort calls into Male/Female/Duet with a secondary model there is a lot less work for me to do, I was finished on Tuesday evening. 

The analysis is now where I get to spend my time, which is great.

Lots of work has happened on the new [skraak.kiwi](https://skraak.kiwi) and some pretty fabulous statistics. More work to do fleshing out human questions that may be asked. Feel free to ask questions yourself, I will add them to my list.

You can now listen to kiwi calls, and a lot of noise at [Spotify](https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/david-cary), I just gave up uploading more, there are about 20 something to be uploaded. The calls are selcted by a dodgy machine, not me. I tried noise reduction but it created distortion worse than the noise. It all has to be automatic, there were 2200 calls selected, can't do it by hand. WIP maybe.

There are 15 new moths on the way soon. Hopefully 8 will be on Rona, 8 on Pomona. They will record 1 minute in every hour of half hour and will require new batteries every 6 months to a year. The plan is to develop an automated way of assessing forest health. Eventually, it will take time.

The remaining 7 are free to go interesting places, the plan is to have as many as possible on Pomona during August for the Kiwi equivalent of the roar.

Not many Kaka detected, they seem to be elsewhere.

I will leave the stats at [skraak.kiwi](https://skraak.kiwi) to do the talking. I now have over 23000 individual calls in the database.

Sing Kiwi Sing

[Subscribe](https://tinyletter.com/fiordlandpacks) to newsletter.
@@